---
layout: post
author: "Piyush Goyal"
author_url: https://github.com/PIYUSHgoyal16
title: "CrazyEgg"
subtitle: "Gain Optimal Attention for your Website Using Heatmap Technology"
bg_url: "https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/43112419/83101312-ada27100-a0cf-11ea-96fe-10a144a7bcb0.png"
tags: [home]
---

Heatmap technology is relatively new in the world of analytics, but it has proven to be a
powerful tool in the quest to gain as much optimal attention for your website as possible. When
you use Crazy Egg, the system will catalog the activity of every user that visits your site. It's
essentially a key-logger that works for all activity, from scrolls to clicks.

__Table of Contents__


1. **[How to Implement?](#understanding-git)**
2. **[How it Works?](#install-setup)**
3. **[Scroll Map](#software)**

<br>


<h2 id="understanding-git"> How to Implement? </h2>

Crazy Egg is quite easy to implement. If you control the direct code of your website, you can add
a snippet of code from Crazy Egg to the footer of those pages that you want to monitor. Once
the site is active with the Crazy Egg script, they will confirm it is working by notifying you via
email. If you use WordPress, it's even easier to use Crazy Egg with the dedicated plugin.

<h2 id="install-setup">How it Works?</h2>
When you want to view the content collected by Crazy Egg, the software will take a screenshot
of the specific individual webpage you wish to view. It will then overlay the collected clicks on
top of the screenshot as a heat map. You can also choose to view the data as a scroll map,
overlay map, or their proprietary confetti view. Each captured click not only contains the
location of the click on the page, but tons of other metadata like the type of device used to
create the impression, the country of origin, the referrer, and much more.

<h2 id="software">Scroll Map</h2>
The scroll map shows how often people scroll through various parts of your site. It records the
duration of static activity over certain areas, and it shows areas that are often ignored as they
are scrolled over. You can use this to reorganize the information such that it is blended more
evenly so users will get the full experience without focusing on a few small areas.
The overlay and confetti views are quite useful as well. With the overlay view, you'll see
information arranged by website section, and it will show a large amount of data about how
users interact with each section. The confetti view allows you to view the information behind
each individual click.

